Hi and welcome to this video
on challenging English sounds. In this lecture we're going to take a look
at a pair of challenging English sounds. They are th as in they, d as in day. This is a common area of difficulty
in English pronunciation. Many speakers who mispronounce
these sounds do so because these sounds don't
occur in their language. In reality, this [SOUND] sound
involving the speaker's tongue and top teeth is quite rare. And many European and
Asian languages lack its equivalent. For example, in Chinese, Japanese, French,
and German, is an unknown sound so duh is often used as a substitute because
duh is articulated in a similar way. Both the th and the duh sounds are created with the speaker's tongue
being placed behind the top teeth, and both are voiced, which means we use our
voices to help pronounce the words. So, this confusion is understandable. To pronounce the th sound,
you relax your jaw. Separate your upper and
lower teeth by a few millimeters and place the tip of your tongue
between your upper and lower teeth. The th sound is produced by pushing or letting air flow between your tongue and
teeth while using your vocal cords. Take a few moments to watch
this animation which will show you how to make the th sound. [SOUND] Okay, let's practice this sound by repeating these words. The, This, father, together, bathe, loathe. Now repeat the following phrases. This and that. These and those. Gather together with each other. That's a worthy cause. Right, let's focus on the duh sound. To pronounce the duh sound. You place your tongue slightly
different from the th sound. You have to feel your tongue pushing
against the area where your upper teeth and the roof of your mouth meet. You push quite hard so no air can get out of your mouth
while you vibrate your vocal cords. This build pressure in your mouth. The sound duh is made by
suddenly releasing your tongue so that it touches your lower
teeth at the end of the sound. There should be a distinct duh
created as you make the sound. Take a few moments to watch this
animation which will show you how to make the d sound. >> [SOUND] >> Let us try to imitate this sound by repeating these words: document, dead, nobody, children, education, decided. Now repeat the following phrases,
study hard, a difficult decision, birthday cards, modern methods, added and subtracted, cold and dark. Great, let's do a quick recap. We worked on the th and the duh sounds. Remember that these sounds are often
commonly confused, but with time and practice on them your pronunciation and
speaking should improve. You can also practice other challenging
English sounds throughout this course and specialization. Thanks for watching.